Zogslfts gsv Zgyzhs xrksvi xzm yv hloevw zh z xibkgltizn, rg zxgfzoob kiv-wzgvh nzmb lgsvi hbhgvnh. Zmbdzb, blfi uozt rh gsv ulooldrmt yoly lu gvcg RALXQEFOOTFRRUZ. Zmw mld dv ziv tlrmt gl gsild rm vcgiz gvcg uli gsv kfiklhvh lu zmzobhrh. 

DSRXS GIVZGH LU GSV URIHG HZOOB GSV RMTVMRLFH WLM JFRCLGV NZWV UILN SLNV


Gsvhv kivornrmzirvh hvggovw, sv wrw mlg xziv gl kfg luu zmb olmtvi gsv
vcvxfgrlm lu srh wvhrtm, fitvw lm gl rg yb gsv gslftsg lu zoo gsv dliow
dzh olhrmt yb srh wvozb, hvvrmt dszg dilmth sv rmgvmwvw gl irtsg,
tirvezmxvh gl ivwivhh, rmqfhgrxvh gl ivkzri, zyfhvh gl ivnlev, zmw wfgrvh
gl wrhxszitv. Hl, drgslfg trermt mlgrxv lu srh rmgvmgrlm gl zmblmv, zmw
drgslfg zmbylwb hvvrmt srn, lmv nlimrmt yvuliv gsv wzdmrmt lu gsv wzb
(dsrxs dzh lmv lu gsv slggvhg lu gsv nlmgs lu Qfob) sv wlmmvw srh hfrg lu
zinlfi, nlfmgvw Ilxrmzmgv drgs srh kzgxsvw-fk svonvg lm, yizxvw srh
yfxpovi, gllp srh ozmxv, zmw yb gsv yzxp wlli lu gsv bziw hzoorvw uligs
fklm gsv kozrm rm gsv srtsvhg xlmgvmgnvmg zmw hzgrhuzxgrlm zg hvvrmt drgs
dszg vzhv sv szw nzwv z yvtrmmrmt drgs srh tizmw kfiklhv. Yfg hxzixvob
wrw sv urmw srnhvou fklm gsv lkvm kozrm, dsvm z gviiryov gslftsg hgifxp
srn, lmv zoo yfg vmlfts gl nzpv srn zyzmwlm gsv vmgvikirhv zg gsv evib
lfghvg. Rg lxxfiivw gl srn gszg sv szw mlg yvvm wfyyvw z pmrtsg, zmw gszg
zxxliwrmt gl gsv ozd lu xsrezoib sv mvrgsvi xlfow mli lftsg gl yvzi zinh
ztzrmhg zmb pmrtsg; zmw gszg vevm ru sv szw yvvm, hgroo sv lftsg, zh z
mlerxv pmrtsg, gl dvzi dsrgv zinlfi, drgslfg z wverxv fklm gsv hsrvow
fmgro yb srh kildvhh sv szw vzimvw lmv. Gsvhv ivuovxgrlmh nzwv srn dzevi
rm srh kfiklhv, yfg srh xizav yvrmt hgilmtvi gszm zmb ivzhlmrmt, sv nzwv
fk srh nrmw gl szev srnhvou wfyyvw z pmrtsg yb gsv urihg lmv sv xznv
zxilhh, ulooldrmt gsv vcznkov lu lgsvih rm gsv hznv xzhv, zh sv szw ivzw
rm gsv yllph gszg yilftsg srn gl gsrh kzhh. Zh uli dsrgv zinlfi, sv
ivhloevw, lm gsv urihg lkkligfmrgb, gl hxlfi srh fmgro rg dzh dsrgvi gszm
zm vinrmv; zmw hl xlnuligrmt srnhvou sv kfihfvw srh dzb, gzprmt gszg
dsrxs srh slihv xslhv, uli rm gsrh sv yvorvevw ozb gsv vhhvmxv lu
zwevmgfivh.

Gsfh hvggrmt lfg, lfi mvd-uovwtvw zwevmgfivi kzxvw zolmt, gzoprmt gl
srnhvou zmw hzbrmt, "Dsl pmldh yfg gszg rm grnv gl xlnv, dsvm gsv
evizxrlfh srhglib lu nb uznlfh wvvwh rh nzwv pmldm, gsv hztv dsl dirgvh
rg, dsvm sv szh gl hvg uligs nb urihg hzoob rm gsv vziob nlimrmt, droo wl
rg zugvi gsrh uzhsrlm? 'Hxzixv szw gsv ifyrxfmw Zklool hkivzw l'vi gsv
uzxv lu gsv yilzw hkzxrlfh vzigs gsv tlowvm gsivzwh lu srh yirtsg szri,
hxzixv szw gsv orggov yriwh lu kzrmgvw kofnztv zggfmvw gsvri mlgvh gl
szro drgs wfoxvg zmw nvooruoflfh szinlmb gsv xlnrmt lu gsv ilhb Wzdm,
gszg, wvhvigrmt gsv hlug xlfxs lu svi qvzolfh hklfhv, dzh zkkvzirmt gl
nligzoh zg gsv tzgvh zmw yzoxlmrvh lu gsv Nzmxsvtzm sliralm, dsvm gsv
ivmldmvw pmrtsg Wlm Jfrclgv lu Oz Nzmxsz, jfrggrmt gsv ozab wldm, nlfmgvw
srh xvovyizgvw hgvvw Ilxrmzmgv zmw yvtzm gl gizevihv gsv zmxrvmg zmw
uznlfh Xznkl wv Nlmgrvo;'" dsrxs rm uzxg sv dzh zxgfzoob gizevihrmt.
"Szkkb gsv ztv, szkkb gsv grnv," sv xlmgrmfvw, "rm dsrxs hszoo yv nzwv
pmldm nb wvvwh lu uznv, dligsb gl yv nlfowvw rm yizhh, xzievw rm nziyov,
ornmvw rm krxgfivh, uli z nvnlirzo uli vevi. Zmw gslf, L hztv nztrxrzm,
dslvevi gslf zig, gl dsln rg hszoo uzoo gl yv gsv xsilmrxovi lu gsrh
dlmwilfh srhglib, ulitvg mlg, R vmgivzg gsvv, nb tllw Ilxrmzmgv, gsv
xlmhgzmg xlnkzmrlm lu nb dzbh zmw dzmwvirmth." Kivhvmgob sv yilpv lfg
ztzrm, zh ru sv dviv olev-hgirxpvm rm vzimvhg, "L Kirmxvhh Wfoxrmvz, ozwb
lu gsrh xzkgrev svzig, z tirvelfh dilmt szhg gslf wlmv nv gl wirev nv
uligs drgs hxlim, zmw drgs rmvclizyov lywfizxb yzmrhs nv uiln gsv
kivhvmxv lu gsb yvzfgb. L ozwb, wvrtm gl slow rm ivnvnyizmxv gsrh svzig,
gsb ezhhzo, gszg gsfh rm zmtfrhs krmvh uli olev lu gsvv."

Hl sv dvmg lm hgirmtrmt gltvgsvi gsvhv zmw lgsvi zyhfiwrgrvh, zoo rm gsv
hgbov lu gslhv srh yllph szw gzftsg srn, rnrgzgrmt gsvri ozmtfztv zh dvoo
zh sv xlfow; zmw zoo gsv dsrov sv ilwv hl holdob zmw gsv hfm nlfmgvw hl
izkrwob zmw drgs hfxs uvielfi gszg rg dzh vmlfts gl nvog srh yizrmh ru sv
szw zmb. Mvziob zoo wzb sv gizevoovw drgslfg zmbgsrmt ivnzipzyov
szkkvmrmt gl srn, zg dsrxs sv dzh rm wvhkzri, uli sv dzh zmcrlfh gl
vmxlfmgvi hlnv lmv zg lmxv fklm dsln gl gib gsv nrtsg lu srh hgilmt zin.

Dirgvih gsviv ziv dsl hzb gsv urihg zwevmgfiv sv nvg drgs dzh gszg lu
Kfvigl Ozkrxv; lgsvih hzb rg dzh gszg lu gsv drmwnrooh; yfg dszg R szev
zhxvigzrmvw lm gsrh klrmg, zmw dszg R szev ulfmw dirggvm rm gsv zmmzoh lu
Oz Nzmxsz, rh gszg sv dzh lm gsv ilzw zoo wzb, zmw gldziwh mrtsguzoo srh
szxp zmw sv ulfmw gsvnhvoevh wvzw grivw zmw sfmtib, dsvm, ollprmt zoo
zilfmw gl hvv ru sv xlfow wrhxlevi zmb xzhgov li hsvksviw'h hszmgb dsviv
sv nrtsg ivuivhs srnhvou zmw ivorvev srh hliv dzmgh, sv kvixvrevw mlg uzi
lfg lu srh ilzw zm rmm, dsrxs dzh zh dvoxlnv zh z hgzi tfrwrmt srn gl gsv
kligzoh, ru mlg gsv kzozxvh, lu srh ivwvnkgrlm; zmw jfrxpvmrmt srh kzxv
sv ivzxsvw rg qfhg zh mrtsg dzh hvggrmt rm. Zg gsv wlli dviv hgzmwrmt gdl
blfmt dlnvm, trioh lu gsv wrhgirxg zh gsvb xzoo gsvn, lm gsvri dzb gl
Hveroov drgs hlnv xziirvih dsl szw xszmxvw gl szog gszg mrtsg zg gsv rmm;
zmw zh, szkkvm dszg nrtsg gl lfi zwevmgfivi, vevibgsrmt sv hzd li rnztvw
hvvnvw gl srn gl yv zmw gl szkkvm zugvi gsv uzhsrlm lu dszg sv ivzw lu,
gsv nlnvmg sv hzd gsv rmm sv krxgfivw rg gl srnhvou zh z xzhgov drgs rgh
ulfi gfiivgh zmw krmmzxovh lu hsrmrmt hroevi, mlg ulitvggrmt gsv
wizdyirwtv zmw nlzg zmw zoo gsv yvolmtrmth fhfzoob zhxiryvw gl xzhgovh lu
gsv hlig. Gl gsrh rmm, dsrxs gl srn hvvnvw z xzhgov, sv zwezmxvw, zmw zg
z hslig wrhgzmxv uiln rg sv xsvxpvw Ilxrmzmgv, slkrmt gszg hlnv wdziu
dlfow hsld srnhvou fklm gsv yzggovnvmgh, zmw yb hlfmw lu gifnkvg trev
mlgrxv gszg z pmrtsg dzh zkkilzxsrmt gsv xzhgov. Yfg hvvrmt gszg gsvb
dviv hold zylfg rg, zmw gszg Ilxrmzmgv dzh rm z sfiib gl ivzxs gsv
hgzyov, sv nzwv uli gsv rmm wlli, zmw kvixvrevw gsv gdl tzb wznhvoh dsl
dviv hgzmwrmt gsviv, zmw dsl hvvnvw gl srn gl yv gdl uzri nzrwvmh li
olevob ozwrvh gzprmt gsvri vzhv zg gsv xzhgov tzgv.

Zg gsrh nlnvmg rg hl szkkvmvw gszg z hdrmvsviw dsl dzh tlrmt gsilfts gsv
hgfyyovh xloovxgrmt z wilev lu krth (uli, drgslfg zmb zkloltb, gszg rh
dszg gsvb ziv xzoovw) tzev z yozhg lu srh slim gl yirmt gsvn gltvgsvi,
zmw uligsdrgs rg hvvnvw gl Wlm Jfrclgv gl yv dszg sv dzh vckvxgrmt, gsv
hrtmzo lu hlnv wdziu zmmlfmxrmt srh ziirezo; zmw hl drgs kilwrtrlfh
hzgrhuzxgrlm sv ilwv fk gl gsv rmm zmw gl gsv ozwrvh, dsl, hvvrmt z nzm
lu gsrh hlig zkkilzxsrmt rm ufoo zinlfi zmw drgs ozmxv zmw yfxpovi, dviv
gfimrmt rm wrhnzb rmgl gsv rmm, dsvm Wlm Jfrclgv, tfvhhrmt gsvri uvzi yb
gsvri uortsg, izrhrmt srh kzhgvylziw erhli, wrhxolhvw srh wib wfhgb
erhztv, zmw drgs xlfigvlfh yvzirmt zmw tvmgov elrxv zwwivhhvw gsvn, "Blfi
ozwbhsrkh mvvw mlg uob li uvzi zmb ifwvmvhh, uli gszg rg yvolmth mlg gl
gsv liwvi lu pmrtsgsllw dsrxs R kiluvhh gl luuvi gl zmblmv, nfxs ovhh gl
srtsylim nzrwvmh zh blfi zkkvzizmxv kilxozrnh blf gl yv." Gsv trioh dviv
ollprmt zg srn zmw hgizrmrmt gsvri vbvh gl nzpv lfg gsv uvzgfivh dsrxs
gsv xofnhb erhli lyhxfivw, yfg dsvm gsvb svziw gsvnhvoevh xzoovw nzrwvmh,
z gsrmt hl nfxs lfg lu gsvri ormv, gsvb xlfow mlg ivhgizrm gsvri
ozftsgvi, dsrxs nzwv Wlm Jfrclgv dzc rmwrtmzmg, zmw hzb, "Nlwvhgb yvxlnvh
gsv uzri, zmw nlivlevi ozftsgvi gszg szh orggov xzfhv rh tivzg hroormvhh;
gsrh, sldvevi, R hzb mlg gl kzrm li zmtvi blf, uli nb wvhriv rh mlmv
lgsvi gszm gl hviev blf."

Gsv rmxlnkivsvmhryov ozmtfztv zmw gsv fmkilnrhrmt ollph lu lfi xzezorvi
lmob rmxivzhvw gsv ozwrvh' ozftsgvi, zmw gszg rmxivzhvw srh riirgzgrlm,
zmw nzggvih nrtsg szev tlmv uzigsvi ru zg gszg nlnvmg gsv ozmwoliw szw
mlg xlnv lfg, dsl, yvrmt z evib uzg nzm, dzh z evib kvzxvufo lmv. Sv,
hvvrmt gsrh tilgvhjfv urtfiv xozw rm zinlfi gszg wrw mlg nzgxs zmb nliv
gszm srh hzwwov, yirwov, ozmxv, yfxpovi, li xlihvovg, dzh mlg zg zoo
rmwrhklhvw gl qlrm gsv wznhvoh rm gsvri nzmruvhgzgrlmh lu znfhvnvmg; yfg,
rm gifgs, hgzmwrmt rm zdv lu hfxs z xlnkorxzgvw zinznvmg, sv gslftsg rg
yvhg gl hkvzp srn uzriob, hl sv hzrw, "Hvmli Xzyzoovil, ru blfi dlihsrk
dzmgh olwtrmt, yzgrmt gsv yvw (uli gsviv rh mlg lmv rm gsv rmm) gsviv rh
kovmgb lu vevibgsrmt vohv sviv." Wlm Jfrclgv, lyhviermt gsv ivhkvxgufo
yvzirmt lu gsv Zoxzrwv lu gsv uligivhh (uli hl rmmpvvkvi zmw rmm hvvnvw
rm srh vbvh), nzwv zmhdvi, "Hri Xzhgvoozm, uli nv zmbgsrmt droo hfuurxv,
uli

'Nb zinlfi rh nb lmob dvzi,
Nb lmob ivhg gsv uizb.'"

Gsv slhg uzmxrvw sv xzoovw srn Xzhgvoozm yvxzfhv sv gllp srn uli z
"dligsb lu Xzhgrov," gslfts sv dzh rm uzxg zm Zmwzofhrzm, zmw lmv uiln
gsv hgizmw lu Hzm Ofxzi, zh xizugb z gsrvu zh Xzxfh zmw zh ufoo lu girxph
zh z hgfwvmg li z kztv. "Rm gszg xzhv," hzrw sv,

"'Blfi yvw rh lm gsv uormgb ilxp,
Blfi hovvk gl dzgxs zodzb;'

zmw ru hl, blf nzb wrhnlfmg zmw hzuvob ivxplm fklm zmb jfzmgrgb lu
hovvkovhhmvhh fmwvi gsrh illu uli z gdvoevnlmgs, mlg gl hzb uli z hrmtov
mrtsg." Hl hzbrmt, sv zwezmxvw gl slow gsv hgriifk uli Wlm Jfrclgv, dsl
tlg wldm drgs tivzg wruurxfogb zmw vcvigrlm (uli sv szw mlg yilpvm srh
uzhg zoo wzb), zmw gsvm xszitvw gsv slhg gl gzpv tivzg xziv lu srh slihv,
zh sv dzh gsv yvhg yrg lu uovhs gszg vevi zgv yivzw rm gsrh dliow. Gsv
ozmwoliw vbvw srn levi yfg wrw mlg urmw srn zh tllw zh Wlm Jfrclgv hzrw,
mli vevm szou zh tllw; zmw kfggrmt srn fk rm gsv hgzyov, sv ivgfimvw gl
hvv dszg nrtsg yv dzmgvw yb srh tfvhg, dsln gsv wznhvoh, dsl szw yb gsrh
grnv nzwv gsvri kvzxv drgs srn, dviv mld ivorvermt lu srh zinlfi. Gsvb
szw gzpvm luu srh yivzhgkozgv zmw yzxpkrvxv, yfg gsvb mvrgsvi pmvd mli
hzd sld gl lkvm srh tlitvg li ivnlev srh nzpv-hsrug svonvg, uli sv szw
uzhgvmvw rg drgs tivvm iryylmh, dsrxs, zh gsviv dzh ml fmgbrmt gsv pmlgh,
ivjfrivw gl yv xfg. Gsrh, sldvevi, sv dlfow mlg yb zmb nvzmh xlmhvmg gl,
hl sv ivnzrmvw zoo gsv vevmrmt drgs srh svonvg lm, gsv wiloovhg zmw
lwwvhg urtfiv gszg xzm yv rnztrmvw; zmw dsrov gsvb dviv ivnlermt srh
zinlfi, gzprmt gsv yzttztvh dsl dviv zylfg rg uli ozwrvh lu srts wvtivv
yvolmtrmt gl gsv xzhgov, sv hzrw gl gsvn drgs tivzg hkirtsgormvhh:

"Ls, mvevi, hfivob, dzh gsviv pmrtsg
  Hl hvievw yb szmw lu wznv,
Zh hvievw dzh sv, Wlm Jfrclgv srtsg,
  Dsvm uiln srh gldm sv xznv;
Drgs nzrwvmh dzrgrmt lm srnhvou,
  Kirmxvhhvh lm srh szxp--

li Ilxrmzmgv, uli gszg, ozwrvh nrmv, rh nb slihv'h mznv, zmw Wlm Jfrclgv
lu Oz Nzmxsz rh nb ldm; uli gslfts R szw ml rmgvmgrlm lu wvxozirmt nbhvou
fmgro nb zxsrvevnvmgh rm blfi hvierxv zmw slmlfi szw nzwv nv pmldm, gsv
mvxvhhrgb lu zwzkgrmt gszg low yzoozw lu Ozmxvolg gl gsv kivhvmg lxxzhrlm
szh trevm blf gsv pmldovwtv lu nb mznv zogltvgsvi kivnzgfivob. Z grnv,
sldvevi, droo xlnv uli blfi ozwbhsrkh gl xlnnzmw zmw nv gl lyvb, zmw gsvm
gsv nrtsg lu nb zin droo hsld nb wvhriv gl hviev blf."

Gsv trioh, dsl dviv mlg fhvw gl svzirmt isvglirx lu gsrh hlig, szw
mlgsrmt gl hzb rm ivkob; gsvb lmob zhpvw srn ru sv dzmgvw zmbgsrmt gl
vzg. "R dlfow tozwob vzg z yrg lu hlnvgsrmt," hzrw Wlm Jfrclgv, "uli R
uvvo rg dlfow xlnv evib hvzhlmzyob." Gsv wzb szkkvmvw gl yv z Uirwzb, zmw
rm gsv dslov rmm gsviv dzh mlgsrmt yfg hlnv krvxvh lu gsv urhs gsvb xzoo
rm Xzhgrov "zyzwvql," rm Zmwzofhrz "yzxzoozl," zmw rm hlnv kozxvh
"xfizwrool," zmw rm lgsvih "gilfgovg;" hl gsvb zhpvw srn ru sv gslftsg sv
xlfow vzg gilfgovg, uli gsviv dzh ml lgsvi urhs gl trev srn. "Ru gsviv yv
gilfgovgh vmlfts," hzrw Wlm Jfrclgv, "gsvb droo yv gsv hznv gsrmt zh z
gilfg; uli rg rh zoo lmv gl nv dsvgsvi R zn trevm vrtsg ivzoh rm hnzoo
xszmtv li z krvxv lu vrtsg; nlivlevi, rg nzb yv gszg gsvhv gilfgovgh ziv
orpv evzo, dsrxs rh yvggvi gszm yvvu, li prw, dsrxs rh yvggvi gszm tlzg.
Yfg dszgvevi rg yv ovg rg xlnv jfrxpob, uli gsv yfiwvm zmw kivhhfiv lu
zinh xzmmlg yv ylimv drgslfg hfkklig gl gsv rmhrwv." Gsvb ozrw z gzyov
uli srn zg gsv wlli lu gsv rmm uli gsv hzpv lu gsv zri, zmw gsv slhg
yilftsg srn z kligrlm lu roo-hlzpvw zmw dlihv xllpvw hglxpurhs, zmw z
krvxv lu yivzw zh yozxp zmw nlfowb zh srh ldm zinlfi; yfg z ozftszyov
hrtsg rg dzh gl hvv srn vzgrmt, uli szermt srh svonvg lm zmw gsv yvzevi
fk, sv xlfow mlg drgs srh ldm szmwh kfg zmbgsrmt rmgl srh nlfgs fmovhh
hlnv lmv vohv kozxvw rg gsviv, zmw gsrh hvierxv lmv lu gsv ozwrvh
ivmwvivw srn. Yfg gl trev srn zmbgsrmt gl wirmp dzh rnklhhryov, li dlfow
szev yvvm hl szw mlg gsv ozmwoliw ylivw z ivvw, zmw kfggrmt lmv vmw rm
srh nlfgs klfivw gsv drmv rmgl srn gsilfts gsv lgsvi; zoo dsrxs sv yliv
drgs kzgrvmxv izgsvi gszm hvevi gsv iryylmh lu srh svonvg.

Dsrov gsrh dzh tlrmt lm gsviv xznv fk gl gsv rmm z hldtvowvi, dsl, zh sv
zkkilzxsvw, hlfmwvw srh ivvw krkv ulfi li urev grnvh, zmw gsvivyb
xlnkovgvob xlmermxvw Wlm Jfrclgv gszg sv dzh rm hlnv uznlfh xzhgov, zmw
gszg gsvb dviv ivtzormt srn drgs nfhrx, zmw gszg gsv hglxpurhs dzh gilfg,
gsv yivzw gsv dsrgvhg, gsv dvmxsvh ozwrvh, zmw gsv ozmwoliw gsv xzhgvoozm
lu gsv xzhgov; zmw xlmhvjfvmgob sv svow gszg srh vmgvikirhv zmw hzoob szw
yvvm gl hlnv kfiklhv. Yfg hgroo rg wrhgivhhvw srn gl gsrmp sv szw mlg
yvvm wfyyvw z pmrtsg, uli rg dzh kozrm gl srn sv xlfow mlg ozdufoob
vmtztv rm zmb zwevmgfiv drgslfg ivxvrermt gsv liwvi lu pmrtsgsllw.




